.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Sergio Durigan Junior <sergiodj@sergiodj.net>
.\"
.\" This document is dual-licensed.  You may distribute and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of either of the following licenses:
.\"
.\" * The GNU General Public License, as published by the Free
.\"   Software Foundation, version 3 or (at your option) any later
.\"   version.  You should have received a copy of the GNU General
.\"   Public License along with this program.  If not, see
.\"   <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" * The GNU Free Documentation License, as published by the Free
.\"   Software Foundation, version 1.2 or (at your option) any later
.\"   version, with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and
.\"   no Back-Cover Texts.  You should have received a copy of the GNU
.\"   Free Documentation License along with this program.  If not, see
.\"   <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.TH RNETCLIENT 1 "version 2014.1" "April 2014"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"

.SH NAME

rnetclient \- Submit the Brazilian Income Tax Report to the Brazilian
Tax Authority

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rnetclient
[\-d|\-\-declaration] <FILE> [\-o <DIRECTORY>|\-\-output-dir=<DIRECTORY>]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBrnetclient\fP is used to send Brazilian tax income reports to
Receita Federal, Braziliam Tax Authority.  It communicates with the
official server from Receita Federal, ensures a secure connection is
established, and submits the file.  It is the product of
reverse-engineering ReceitaNet, which is the proprietary, non-free
version of the software that does the same thing as \fBrnetclient\fP.

.SH OPTIONS

.\" --declaration
.TP
.B \-d <FILE>, \-\-declaration=<FILE>
Provide the declaration (report) filename to be sent to Receita
Federal.  This argument is mandatory.  For historical reasons, the
user can also provide the declaration filename without specifying the
\fB\-d\fP modifier.

.\" --output-dir
.TP
.B \-o <DIRECTORY>, \-\-output\-dir=<DIRECTORY>
Specify the output directory where the receipt will be saved.  This
argument is optional; if no output directory is specified, then the
receipt will be saved in the current working directory (CWD).

.\" --version
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print the program version and exit.


.SH HISTORY AND MOTIVATION

There is no way to talk about rnetclient without mentioning
IRPF-Livre, which is an older project started and maintained by
Alexandre Oliva.  This project exists because Receita Federal, the
Brazilian Tax Authority, does not release the source code for the
software used to fill the Brazilian Tax Income Report.  Alexandre
still fights to make Receita Federal release this program as Free
Software, but he also decided to produce and release a Free version of
the program.  However, there was still another closed source software
needed to fully be able to do your duties with the Brazilian
government: the program used to submit the report to Receita Federal.
That is how rnetclient was born.

The program began as a personal project from Thadeu Lima de Souza
Cascardo.  He had to reverse engineer the proprietary software in
order to replicate the functionality, and made the first release on
2013.  In 2014, Alexandre Oliva and Sergio Durigan Junior joined
efforts and helped in the release of the second version.

.SH BUGS

Bugs should be reported to \fB<softwares-impostos@fsfla.org>\fP.

.SH HOMEPAGE

\fB<http://wiki.libreplanetbr.org/rnetclient>\fP

.SH AUTHORS

Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo  <cascardo (at) cascardo (dot) info>
.br
Sergio Durigan Junior  <sergiodj (at) sergiodj (dot) net>
.br
Alexandre Oliva  <lxoliva (at) fsfla (dot) org>
